Hey guys welcome back to the course.
So in our last few lectures we talked about some of the more technical ways to improve.
SC Oh and before that we discussed writing and code and all of the things you do on each page on this
lecture I to discuss things you can do that involve other Web sites.
What are the most important indicators of a page's value.
How many links it has to it from external sources or other people's websites.
Talk about there's a little bit of back and content marketing and we liked it then because someone links
to your site.
Well people might click that and come find your site.
But in SC We like it for an entirely different reason because it tells Google your page might be important.
Now I want to talk with the ways to increase that number of links those inbound links.
Practice many people call it link building.
Now in the past link building has been kind of a dirty SEO tactic and not by any fault of people trying
to legitimately get links.
Some weirdos would go out and basically create fake Web site with links to their site just to build
up their numbers.
They also would got to like directory Web sites that list out millions of sites and then use those and
just insert them into hundreds in different different resource pages and then even actually got worse
some people would pay for links or pay people to do these things for them.
So basically it gave link building really bad name but Google still knows that when people link to another
site it's generally an endorsement of that site and its value.
Three Google treats link building is constantly evolving because they're trying to deal with that problem
of some people still abuse it.
So in general there's things like building you need to avoid.
And then there are things that are perfectly legitimate and you should absolutely do.
Now first off get in the habit of linking to other sites in your articles in your post.
If those sites are paying attention well they may link back to you with the thing.
Or just to be polite.
If they're not paying attention well you can ping them on social media and let them know you're a fan
or that you like their service or whatever.
Maybe you can also just tell them stop ignoring me.
That could compel them to give you a link back.
Now asking to Google for a link is another way to just simply do it.
I wouldn't recommend going to people cold.
But if you know them personally or have had some interactions on social media perhaps approaching someone
with a blog or a Web site and asking for a link generally isn't a bad idea.
You know obviously say give me link you say I made this specifically to help this person solve this
problem.
This blog post of yours is generally targeting the same type of person.
I think this could be a nice addition because of this in content marketing.
Anyway be prepared of course to promise them the link in return.
Another way to do this is to schedule a day of the week where you actively promote content from other
sites.
Not unlike those like hashtags follow Friday things people sometimes do on Twitter.
Look for a complimentary blog or web site like if you offer web design services you might mention in
your post that are looking for logo design should check out this graphic designers blog.
In return you could ask the same graphic designer to mention you at some point when he's recommending
web designers to his own clients.
So on a related note you could ask for a product or service review instead of just asking for a plain
link.
Ask for a review.
Well it makes a little bit more sense if you want to get a link from a blogger or writer.
You could send them a free sample or a code to use an online service for free.
But be sure to ask them to include a link in the review.
Kind of goes without saying.
Now another way to generate links is to find places that link to mini sites like yourselves look for
listin resource pages on different blogs at Web sites like this one here says offering 100 links to
web development resources.
Now this is different than what I was talking about before with or essentially link farms and link farm
might be a site that just has millions of links and the page itself has nothing on it.
Nothing of value that's different than someone who actually has an active blog has their own following
and then creates a resource page because they think that's useful.
Now maybe you created a great text editor you want to promote.
So you might look for people who have made list about say programming resources.
You know since coders often use text editors to write or clean up their code.
This web development resources page has a section on text editors so you might reach out and ask to
be considered for the list as well.
Just say hey I know you wrote this at this time but since then I've made this and I think it's better
for x y reason.
By the way it takes some time to actually search for your competitors as well.
See who links to those guys and then see if it's possible to get a link from the same source.
It could be on a page with a list of similar companies or products.
It's kind of like sky scraping.
Are we talking about content marketing.
You write something better than what you do is you go and find all the people who links to the now inferior
posts and you basically ask them hey I made a better one.
Can you update your link.
Very similar.
You can do what competitors go after their competitors and try the same thing.
If you want to find links to your competitors try to use that Web site.
We use a forfeitures h raft start com.
They're usually pretty good.
There's also a bunch of other ones you can try.
Usually they're free.
So in addition to whatever regular marketing or social promotion you might do these strategies can help
you with your link building efforts.
Find something that works.
Keep at it but don't just do things once.
Create a system for yourself for every week or every month you do some kind of outreach and each time
you publish a post think of the opportunities for connecting with people in your industry.
All right guys.
That's all for Link Building for now.
You can take an entire course on link building but these are kind of the best practices in the general
overview that you need to understand.
You should be able to actually go out and try it again past that point.
You have to have an entirely different course.
Anyway I'm going to see you guys in the next lecture.